#summary A step by step instruction on how to upload the code to the open evse board.

= Introduction =

These are my notes on what I needed to get, install, change to be able to upload code to the open evse board. Your experience may vary.


= Details =

== What you need == 
=== ISP ===
Since the board does not have bootloader, you would need an ISP programmer. The one I used is the sparkfun usbtinyisp:
$15 http://www.sparkfun.com/products/9825
It came with a 6 pin cable - so you can plug it directly to the 6 pin header on the open evse board. 
It took some time to figure out the orientation of the header so here is a photo of the ISP and open evse board connected. 

=== Mini-usb cable ===
You would need mini usb to usb cable to connect your computer to the ISP programmer. 

=== Arduino programming environment ===
This would allow you to compile and upload the code, download it here:
http://arduino.cc/en/Main/Software
I downloaded the latest version 1.0.

After download and unpacking I needed to change few things:
  # 1 Find and download the Time library.
I downloaded it from here:
http://www.arduino.cc/playground/uploads/Code/Time.zip and unpack it in the libraries arduino IDE folder - for me (on Windows 7) that was <install dir>\arduino-1.0-windows\arduino-1.0\libraries. The library zip file contained 3 folders - so I got Time, DateTime and a 3rd library.

  # 2 Add definition for the evse board*
add to <install dir>\arduino-1.0-windows\arduino-1.0\hardware\arduino\boards.txt the following lines:
{{{
##############################################################

usbtiny328.name=[usbtinyisp]OPEN EVSE

usbtiny328.upload.using=usbtinyisp
usbtiny328.upload.maximum_size=32768

usbtiny328.build.mcu=atmega328p
usbtiny328.build.f_cpu=16000000L
usbtiny328.build.core=arduino
usbtiny328.build.variant=standard
}}}

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages