#summary Where to go to get help.

= Introduction =
OpenEVSE is a community developed project and is also supported by the community. There are a lot of resources available and lots of people ready to lend a helping hand or provide advice.

Please use the available resources below before contacting members directly. You will likely get a must faster response from the community.


=Wiki=
This Wiki provides a lot of useful information. If something is not clear try asking your question on the OpenEVSE Group. When you get the answer please volunteer to clarify the Wiki for the next builder. Editing Wikis is very easy..

= OpenEVSE Group =
The OpenEVSE group is a great resource to ask questions. It is monitored by all the major contributors of the project and many builders.

https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/openevse

=OpenEVSE hardware bought from OpenEVSE Store=
If you have a question or problem with your order. Both Email and Phone support are available.

==Email==
Please send an email to chris1howell83@gmail.com.

==Phone==
Phone support is available upon request. Please send an E-mail to the address above with a summary of the problem and contact information. 

 
= EV specific Forums =
Most EV Forums have a topic dedicated to DIY EVSE or OpenEVSE. These are a good resource for your particular application.

GM Volt
http://gm-volt.com/

My Nissan Leaf
http://www.mynissanleaf.com/viewtopic.php?f=26&t=6546

Prius Chat
http://priuschat.com


Tesla Motors Club
http://www.teslamotorsclub.com/showthread.php/6171-DIY-Home-EVSE

My Rav4 EV
http://www.myrav4ev.com/forum/index.php